update Assistant docs (#1982)
semgrep/semgrep-docs: docs/semgrep-assistant/customize.md

---
slug: customize
title: Customize Assistant
hide_title: true
description: Learn how to enable and configure Assistant's features.
tags:
  - Deployment
  - Semgrep Assistant
---

# Customize Semgrep Assistant

You can customize Semgrep Assistant by enabling and using the features detailed on this page.

## Remediation

Assistant remediation allows you to receive AI-generated code snippets for true positives. Perform the following to enable it:

1. Sign in to Semgrep AppSec Platform, and navigate to **Settings > Deployment**.
2. In the **Assistant** section, click the **Remediation** <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> if it is not yet enabled.
3. *Optional*: Select a **confidence level** in the drop-down box. This value determines the level of quality at which the autofix code appears as a suggestion. A lower confidence level means that Semgrep Assistant displays the autofix suggestion even when the code quality may be incorrect.

:::tip
Semgrep recommends setting a low confidence level since even incorrect suggestions may be useful starting points for triage and remediation.
:::

## Auto-triage

> If [auto-triage](/semgrep-assistant/overview/#auto-triage), which allows you to get notifications whenever Assistant indicates a finding may be safe to ignore, isn't enabled for your deployment, you can do so as follows:

Reviewer: Is auto-triage on by default?

Author: Yeah, by default, all features are enabled after enabling Assistant. I think the only way this would be disabled is if someone did so manually. 
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/34900b5f-8374-4e33-9af4-23c5ca08d4ef)

Author: Maybe the way to handle this is to reorder the instructions:

> [Auto-triage](/semgrep-assistant/overview/#auto-triage) allows you to get notifications whenever Assistant indicates a finding may be safe to ignore. If this feature isn't enabled for your deployment, you can do so using the following instructions

WDYT?

Reviewer: SGTM!

1. Sign in to Semgrep AppSec Platform, and navigate to **Settings > Deployment**.
2. In the **Assistant** section, click the **Auto-triage for Code** <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> if it is not yet enabled.
3. Select whether you want alerts included in your **PR/MR comments** and **Slack notifications**.

![MR comment from Semgrep Assistant in GitLab](/img/assistant-gl-comment.png#md-width)
*Figure*. MR comment from Semgrep Assistant in GitLab.

### Missing PR and comments
Semgrep Assistant messages only appear in your PR comments for rules that are set to Comment or Block mode on the Rule Management page. Ensure that:

* You have set rules to Comment or Block mode.

>   ![ Policies modes](/img/semgrep-assistant-comment.png#md-width)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ![Policies modes](/img/semgrep-assistant-comment.png#md-width)
```

> * You have selected PR/MR comments in **Semgrep AppSec Platform > Settings > Deployment** in the **Code** section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have selected **PR/MR comments** in **Semgrep AppSec Platform > Settings > Deployment** in the **Code** section.
```

Just to make it clear it's in the UI.

## Weekly priority emails

> If [weekly priority emails](/semgrep-assistant/overview/#weekly-priority-emails), which allows organization admins to receive information on top backlog tasks according to Assistant, isn't enabled for your deployment, you can do so as follows:

Reviewer: Similar to the comment above (is this feature enabled by default in a given deployment?) - It seems weird to start an instruction with "if".

2. Click **Customize fix** to open an input box, and enter your preferred remediation approaches and secure defaults for the project. Your suggestion can be as general as "Use AWS Secrets Manager to manage secrets."
   ![Assistant’s suggested fix for a hardcoded secret in the user’s code](/img/memories-3.png#md-width)
   ***Figure***. Assistant’s suggested fix for a hardcoded secret in the user’s code.
3. Click **Save and regenerate**.
   ![User-provided custom instruction that Assistant uses to improve future guidance.](/img/memories-2.png#md-width)
   ***Figure***. User-provided custom instruction that Assistant uses to improve future guidance.
4. Assistant regenerates the suggested fix to reflect the instructions you provided.
   ![Regenerated Assistant fix using the user-provided instructions.](/img/memories-1.png#md-width)
   ***Figure***. Regenerated Assistant fix using the user-provided instructions.

While Assistant Memories is in **public beta**, memories are scoped to remediation guidance on a per-project and per-rule basis. A saved memory only affects future guidance for findings triggered by the same rule in the same project.

> ### Add memory during triage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add Memory during triage
```
Add capital m? or is it only applied to the whole feature, Assistant Memories?

Author: I've been writing it with a lowercase M using similar logic to SMS (Managed Scanning is as it is; a managed scan is not capitalized).

> If you identify findings that are safe to ignore and write triage notes indicating why this is so, Assistant can store this information as a memory and use it when assessing whether a similar finding should be shown to developers in the future. Assistant also takes that memory, reanalyzes similar findings in your backlog, and suggests issues that may be safe to close.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you identify findings that are safe to ignore, Semgrep Assistant can store your triage notes and create a **memory**, which it will then use to assess if a similar finding should be shown to developers. Assistant also takes that memory, reanalyzes similar findings in your backlog, and suggests issues that may be safe to close.
```
Something like that?

Author: LGTM!
